Now that we have a generalized
policy iteration algorithm
for Monte Carlo control,
let's use it in an example
and see how it works.
By the end of this video,
you'll be able to
apply Monte Carlo with
Exploring Starts to
solve an example MDP.
Let's learn a policy.
We will train our agent
to play blackjack
using Monte Carlo with
Exploring Starts.
Exploring starts requires that
episodes begin with
a random state and action.
Luckily for us, our version of
blackjack naturally
starts in random states.
Then, all we have to do is to
randomly select the first action
in each episode.
That is the agent ignores what
it thinks is the best action in
the first state and randomly
chooses to hit or stick.
The initial policy is hit,
when the agent sum
is less than 20,
and to stick when
the sum is 20 or 21.
Let's step through a game
and see what
the algorithm would do.
Suppose the agents cards
show a total of 13
with no usable ace and
the dealers visible card
is an eight.
According to the randomly sampled
first action, the agent hits.
The agent gets a seven
moving the sum to 20.
On the next step,
the agent chooses
the action according
to its policy.
So it sticks. Now,
it's the dealers turn.
The dealer draws a
nine and goes over
21 losing the game and
resulting in a plus
one reward for the agent.
Great. Now, let's look
at the state action pairs
we saw during the game,
starting from the end of
the episode and
working backwards.
In the last non-terminal state,
the agent had a sum of 20,
no usable ace, and
the dealer had an eight.
From that state,
the agent chose to stick.
The agent adds plus
one to its list of
returns corresponding to
that state action pair.
The estimated value for
the action stick in
this state is simply one.
Let's look at the value of
the two actions in this state.
The agent never
tried to hit action,
so its value is zero.
The value of
the stick action is one.
We just computed that.
So the greedy action
with respect to Q,
in this state, is to stick.
It has the highest
estimated value.
Let's move back in time one
more step to the start state.
The agent had 13
with no usable ace,
and the dealer had an eight.
The randomly chosen
action was to hit.
Again, the agent adds plus one to
the list of returns following
that state action pair.
The average of the list forms
the estimate of the action value.
Finally, the policy is
updated in this state to
be greedy with respect to
the action value estimates.
In this state, we had
never tried to stick
action and its value is zero.
But the hit action resulted
in a return of one.
So the greedy action is to hit,
and the policy is
updated to reflect this.
We then repeat this process
over many episodes.
The action values and the policy
will approach
their optimal values.
Let's look at the optimal
policy that the agent
found after we ran it
for a really long time.
Notice how the agent plays
when it has the usable ace.
For most dealer cards,
the agent hits until it
has the sum near 19.
With a usable ace,
the agent has
a lot more flexibility in
calculating the sum of its cards,
so the policy is much
more aggressive.
Without a usable ace,
the policy depends a lot
more on the cards
the dealer is showing.
The agent sticks when
its sum is 13 or
greater and the dealer
has a low card,
like a two or three.
This is optimal even
though it seems like
the chance of winning will
be low in this situation.
That's all for this time.
In this video, we
showed you how to apply
Monte Carlo with Exploring
Starts to an example MDP.